Welcome to another edition of JW Broadcasting. Thank you for joining us. You will
be delighted to see reports of some of the many exciting activities that have
taken place this past calendar year in furthering Kingdom Interest. You will
also hear experiences from construction projects in Micronesia that the
brothers involved attribute to Jehovah's Intervention. And have you benefited
from the translation of JW Broadcasting into languages other than English? We
will take you behind the scenes to see how the program is made available to as
many of God's sheep as possible. This is the January program of JW Broadcasting.
Our theme for this month's broadcast is sincere
commendation is always appropriate. One definition of commendation is the
act of praising or approving of someone. And when it is given in a sincere,
genuine way, how encouraging it can be to the one receiving it. That makes us
think of Proverbs 15 23, which says, a word spoken at the right time, how good it
is. Similarly, Proverbs 12 25 talks about how anxiety can weigh a person's heart
down, but then says, but a good word cheers it up. A 19th century author
gested, I can live for two months on a good compliment. But now, keeping our
theme in mind, let us talk about Jehovah and Jesus. Can you imagine how much
Jehovah must have appreciated his only begotten son whom we have come to know
is Jesus? Jesus had faithfully supported his father for eons of time. But then
when he learned of Jehovah's purpose to buy back the hope of everlasting life
for imperfect humans, what did Jesus do? Did he make excuses? As to why he could
not leave heaven and come to the earth? Father, I have many projects going on and I
have my friends here in heaven. And besides, I would miss being with you. I just
don't have the right circumstances. Furthermore, this will be a very difficult
painful humiliating assignment. It seems like this is a good assignment for Gabriel.
No, Jesus did not even slightly reason this way. He willingly made sacrifices that
cost him dearly. He changed life forms, going from a majestic spirit creature to a
little baby completely dependent on his parents. Later, as a perfect child, he
remained fully in subjection to imperfect parents. Then, as an adult, he worked
his heart out in starting a preaching campaign that continues to this very day.
You wonder how many pairs of sandals he may have worn out during his three and a
half year ministry. Then, he died an agonizing death on a torture stake in order to
provide a corresponding ransom according to Jehovah's purpose. He contributed his
very life to support the work that Jehovah wanted accomplished at that time.
Undoubtedly, you recall the video that was shown during the final talk of last year's
regional convention. It helped us better appreciate what Jesus did for us. By his
selfless act, he opened the way for everlasting life, whether in heaven or on earth.
But now the question is, did Jehovah appreciate all that his son did to support him,
sanctifying his name, and vindicating his sovereignty? Absolutely. We know he did.
Imagine Jesus waste deep in the Jordan River. His hair still dripping from his baptism. He looks
up and in some way sees the heavens open up and God's spirit descend like a dove and come upon
him. Then he hears Jehovah's own voice from heaven say, this is my son, the beloved whom I have
approved. If we think about it, Jehovah packed a lot of commendation into that one sentence.
This is my son. Jehovah, in effect, was saying, son, I am proud to be your father.
The beloved Jehovah was saying, I love you son, whom I have approved. Jehovah was saying,
I am very happy son with what you have done thus far. And I know I'm going to be very happy
with what you will yet do. Can you imagine how good all of that commendation made Jesus feel?
Yes, Jehovah appreciated all of the sacrifices Jesus had made to support what he wanted accomplished
and he expressed his appreciation. Jesus, being the exact reflection of his father,
was also a perfect example of one who commended others. As recorded at Luke 22, 28, and 29,
do you remember what Jesus said to his faithful 11 apostles on the last night of his life as a human?
You are the ones who have stuck with me in my trials. And I make a covenant with you for a kingdom.
Warm commendation indeed. Consider another example. Although Jesus provided constructive
counsel to several congregations, he also warmly commended them. Notice what he said to the
congregation in Thyatira at Revelation 2 verse 19. In verse 19, Jesus said, I know your deeds
and your love and faith and ministry and endurance and that your deeds of late are more than those
you did at first. Such detailed, thoughtful commendation likely move the congregation to continue
making similar progress thereafter. Well now we have talked about the two best examples in the
universe of ones who are generous with commendation, Jehovah and Jesus. But now what about us?
Ephesians 5, 1 urges us to become imitators of God. And our convention theme this past year
was imitate Jesus. And this counsel also applies to the governing body. The governing body would like
to follow Jehovah's and Jesus good example by providing warm commendation to you, dear brothers and
sisters. So many of you are so responsive to any suggestions or appeals made to you
by the faithful and discreet slave. In the late 2015 monthly program, we shared our interest in
expediting the construction of new kingdom halls and remote translation offices. And we explained
some of the financial challenges we were facing in being able to do so. We discerned that contributions
immediately went up by more than 15% for the months of June and July. We thank you very much.
Not only are older ones in Jehovah's organization responding with generosity,
the governing body has been deeply touched by the response of many young ones.
It's just one example. I personally received a precious letter, Dear Brother Lat.
Hello, I am 13 years old. The reason I wrote this letter is because of the May JW Broadcasting.
I was motivated to contribute to the worldwide work. I have been saving up
and my relatives gave me some money. I hope it helps. I also want to thank you and the other
governing body members for the Korean JW Broadcasting. Now, my whole family can understand much more
and benefit from it. My whole family wants to appreciate all of this. Please tell the other
governing body members also. And then she drew a smiley face. So because you motivated me in
financial ways, I was also motivated in spiritual ways. I am doing auxiliary pioneering during summer
break. One more time. My family and I want to say thank you. And then she drew a big red heart
at the end of her letter. Well, I sent the check to the Treasurer's office, but I'm definitely
keeping her touching letter and her adorable picture. Comments such as these have moved us to
want to use this January 2016 broadcast program to thank you from the bottom of our hearts
for your support and also to update you on what has happened since last May. So many good things
are happening. So we ask what has been accomplished in the past eight months? Well, we continue to finance
the weekly costs to feed and house the more than 25,000 Bethel family members worldwide
and to help support over 55,000 others in special full-time service. We have been able to continue
to fund the huge construction project of building the World Headquarters Facility in Warwick,
New York. Additionally, large branch construction and renovation projects that were underway
are being supported. And around the world, considerable audio and video equipment has been
purchased to show the entire program of our imitate Jesus Convention on big screens or monitors.
Seeing the participants up close holds our attention and enhances the learning experience.
You may not realize it, but there were 52 videos and almost 30 other audio and visual aids presented
during this convention, making a total of some 80 presentations for our enjoyment.
In addition to all of the foregoing, in the past eight months, over 2,000 kingdom halls have been built
or are in the process of being completed. That average is more than eight kingdom halls being built
every day, which is truly amazing. Also, over 50 remote translation office facilities have been
completed or are now in the process of being built. Does all of this mean, though, that we have
accomplished all of our goals? You remember that in our May program, we mentioned the willing
generosity of the Israelites in the wilderness when they were asked to contribute to the fabrication
and construction of the tabernacle for true worship. You recall that in Exodus 35, it says that
everyone whose heart impelled Him and everyone whose spirit incited Him came and brought their
contribution for Jehovah. And in chapter 36 verse 7, it says, the goods were enough for all the work
to be done and more than enough. So we ask, were the Israelites more appreciative and responsive
than we are today? No. As we said earlier, you are to be commended for your immediate generous
response to the May broadcast. You responded similar to the Israelites in Moses time.
The difference, however, between the Israelites giving an ours today is that they only had one project
to construct. When it was completed, that was all it was needed. However, as you know, we have
thousands of projects that need our continued support. It is not just a two month undertaking.
In fact, as announced at the annual meeting this past October, the governing body is so serious
about advancing kingdom interest in the field that we have re-analyzed ways. We can cut back
at all the branches so as to redirect more funds to the field. For example, many long standing
Bethel routines and services are being reduced or eliminated. This will result in fewer members
of the Bethel family being required. The governing body is absolutely confident, completely confident
that this initiative and other cost-saving initiatives that we're taking coupled with your
continued support will enable us to care for all the needs in the field. On behalf of the governing
body, I would like to borrow the inspired words of 2 Thessalonians, chapter 1, verses 3 and 4.
We express the words of Paul to you, dear brothers and sisters.
We are obligated always to give thanks to God for you, brothers. This is fitting because your
faith is growing exceedingly and the love of each and every one of you is increasing toward one
another. As a result, we ourselves take pride in you among the congregations of God because of
your endurance and faith. Again, we sincerely thank you for your generous support of Jehovah's
Great Work in these exciting last days. But now, during this broadcast, we would like to show you
some of the things being accomplished as a result of your generosity. This past summer, it was my
privilege to attend a large regional convention in Stockholm, Sweden. Brothers and sisters from Sweden,
Denmark, Norway, Iceland, Greenland, the Faroe Islands, and also the Swedish Circuit in Finland
were present at this historic convention. While this event was a great spiritual boost for the
witnesses, some of you may know that the majority of the local residents do not believe in God.
Many consider themselves atheists, but the conduct and professionalism of Jehovah's people made our
great impact. First, the branch offices were merged. And the result was a new branch office, Scandinavia
branch. We thought that if all the brothers in Scandinavia should benefit from this unity, then we
had to have a convention in Stockholm. Here, we were allowed to arrange a regional convention,
but one of enormous size. Having 50,000 brothers gathered together for three days is the largest
bureaucratic event ever in Scandinavia. So, we began to look for a facility and we found friends
Arena. I think we have had a very good collaboration. Many times, I have thought, wow,
these people working for you as the organizers of infrastructure, logistics, and so on,
we should work with them more often. The use of technology has been the greatest challenge.
Obviously, with such a last project, many details have to come together.
There are four languages and three sign languages, and all this have to be tied together and
work at the same time. It has been a challenge, but we made it work. All the experts argued that it
would be impossible to have four languages at one arena. In the morning, families with children
and strollers arrived. Some elderly publishers get up at 5.30 or 6 a.m., getting on the bus to be
here in good time. Jehovah must be joyful seeing all the people appreciating the spiritual program
and all their efforts. When the song started, 50,000 were in place here.
And it was our proof that all the hard work and preparation was successful. And actually,
I shared a tear of joy I did. One of the managers at the arena said, you have to stand and listen
to the song, because you will never again hear a choir of 50,000 singing at the same time.
You just have to listen to it. First, I want to thank you for how well it worked out.
Normally, at the arrangements of this size, we are using an event agency. But you've done this
for many years, and you've done a fantastic job, so it wasn't needed. You've been very professional
and have knowledge of the business industry. I've told the contact persons I've been involved with,
that they should start up an event agency, because it has worked out so smoothly.
I can warmly recommend other cities to welcome you.
You have been very well organized, and we have not had to put much effort into the arrangement.
It requires a good organization to get all things to fall into place.
Obviously, having so many tourists in Stockholm at the same time benefits the whole city.
I looked at the number of hotel bookings, and there are not many rooms available.
There are many who can learn from the work of the logistics of how to get 50,000 people
into the area at the same time. That is something we can learn a lot from.
We met with the police this afternoon, and they said that they have never seen such a well-organized
event ever. Seeing how everything has been successful, that is a clear evidence of Jehovah's
help. It's a great confirmation of one's faith. Here you really see faith in action.
Here you see the foundation for a new and better world. Brothers and sisters,
your generous contributions are what make theocratic events like this one possible,
including the obtaining of the audio video equipment required.
However, the same technology is not readily available for conventions everywhere.
In some countries, large video screens or high-quality speakers are simply not obtainable
due to logistical reasons or perhaps political unrest in the country.
But whatever the circumstances, what's important for Jehovah's organization
is that everyone is spiritually fed. Take this convention in a refugee settlement
in Western Uganda as an example. Television screens were transported on unpaid roads
through forest, tea plantations, and small villages. Similar setups with television screens
were used in other countries as well. At times, large video walls are used,
making it easier for a larger audience to see all the beautiful videos that were produced
for the convention. For example, in Brazil, video screens were used at 167 regional conventions.
These screens are owned by the organization and were sent to one convention
after another, traveling a distance equal to more than twice around the earth.
And in Sweden, a mobile control room was used to coordinate and synchronize the video
and audio production of the convention in four spoken languages and three sign languages.
These are only a few examples of what Jehovah's organization does in order to arrange conventions
around the world to spiritually build up Jehovah's people. But this would not be possible
without your contributions. Also, as was the case here in the United States,
oftentimes a decision is made to purchase equipment that is used frequently
instead of paying for a rental each time, which can be very expensive.
Setting up for a convention in a large stadium requires a lot of coordination.
So does the construction of our new world headquarters in Warwick, New York.
Hundreds of volunteers arrive every week to help out all with a variety of construction skills.
But one may ask, with so many people needed, how do we find the right people for the right job?
The answer is, Warwick construction groups that have been set up all over the country.
The Warwick construction group is basically a staffing agency.
Local brothers are given the task to find and assess the construction skill level of volunteers
and then forward that information to the branch.
At that time, we were working with 11 RBCs, roughly 25,000 volunteers.
How are we going to contact them? We sent over 200,000 emails looking for skilled volunteers
in various trades. Then we hit the road, 30 different locations around the state and interviewed
everyone that was interested in Warwick. Don't you think that it's even amazing that Jehovah
assigns humans to do the work for him? And he calls us in 1 Corinthians 3 verse 9. He calls us
fellow workers. What a beautiful expression. And what we find is everybody wants to go
tomorrow and they're so willing to go to spend their own money, sacrifice their time, pay their
own plane tickets and do so many things. That it's just a really encouraging thing to see such a fine
willing spirit that could only exist among Jehovah's people. Volunteers have been organized into
23 different trades, which are managed from the field. Volunteers receive help with any questions,
arrangements or information about Bethel, as well as any Bethel training they may need.
Over 7,000 interviews have already been conducted. One of the first things that my
middle son just said, and he's been wanting a cow for three years, we just got him one probably
about two weeks ago. And the first thing that he said when he heard that dad was asked to leave
next month to go was that he'd be willing to sell his cow. Her dad's in ticket. So we're very excited
about any opportunity like this to serve Jehovah in this way because we feel like this building will
stand into the new system and it's a chance to have a part in something that is so special. And so
we're we're pumped and we're ready for it. We have a cow for sale.
The whole project of Warwick may be about building buildings, but it's the people that build them.
And we've had an extremely nice privilege in meeting all of these brothers and sisters,
all of them willing to go today. Many times, bad health keeps them from doing that.
We've heard stories from brothers that have undergone really bad things in their life,
but they're really wanting to go. One brother made the comment that his daughter had just died
a few weeks before we interviewed him. And he says, I just want to go to Warwick.
So I can poke Satan in the eye. When you see Jehovah's people answer the call,
there's nothing better than to be part of that. Seeing these large groups of brothers and sisters
applying to help build the new world headquarters probably makes you wonder, how is the construction
at Warwick going? Please pay attention to these images that highlight what was accomplished
in recent months. For our financial contributions are important, those that volunteer on construction
projects know that money alone cannot make it successful. We met a brother from Micronesia
who has experience with such projects. And he has seen what he believes is clearly Jehovah's
hand in matters. The buildings that we construct are vital in accomplishing Jehovah's will.
Without the financial support from the brothers and sisters, we wouldn't have the funds needed
to make these projects happen, but Jehovah's support far outweighs any financial support
that's given. You can't replace that with anything.
My name is Travis Brooks. My wife Lacey and I serve in Micronesia. Our assignment is serving in
the LDC department, which is the local design construction department. We care for all the islands
of Micronesia. It covers the same distance from California to New York, but if you took all those
islands and put them together, it would be smaller than the state of Rhode Island. So it's very vast
and spread out. We've seen Jehovah's hand many times throughout the years on our projects.
One that stands out to us is the RIREP congregation in particular. This congregation had been
meeting in a house for a number of years, and they'd have 70, 80, 90, and attendance at times,
but they would sit outside because they couldn't fit in the house, and many of them would
listen through the window or observe through the door. It would rain and they'd have a tarp set up
just to try to keep dry. So we found this piece of property, but the problem was that the government
had just placed a ban on dredging sand and coral out of the ocean or off the beaches. Without
having that, we wouldn't be able to mix our concrete to accomplish our project. So there was one
company on the island that had stockpiled sand and aggregate. We had gone to them a number of
times telling them, asking them if we could purchase just eight yards of cement for our
footings so that we could at least get started, and they kept denying our request and the construction
overseer and myself decided we'd go one more time to that cement company and plead our case with
them. When we pulled into the parking lot of the company and discussed maybe what we could say
to convince them to at least sell us the eight yards that we needed. We made it a matter of
prayer again, and we both exited the vehicle, and as we were approaching the doors of the company,
this blue pickup pulled in and kind of intercepted us. The gentleman, local man, hopped out of his
truck and said, can I help you? And he was the man who was in charge. Well, we explained our situation,
and he said, well, you'll have your concrete the next morning. It was interesting about that,
and which really made us feel like Jehovah had a hand in the matter, was that gentleman had just
flown in the night before from another island. He had been gone for quite some time. He had
pulled in, talked to us, and then hop back in his truck and drove away. So we wondered why did he
pull in in the first place? Well, we didn't want to argue with it, and we just took advantage of
the situation, and the next morning, seven o'clock, the truck rolled in, and we poured our footings.
So we kept moving forward with the project, so we got to that stage where we would need to fill
the blockwork with 80 yards of sand on an island with no sand. So again, we made it a matter of
prayer, and knew that if, again, Jehovah wanted to build, it would be built. So we scoured the island
again to see if there was anybody willing, and we were unsuccessful. So on our way back to the
construction site, and the construction overseer, and I stopped at a store to purchase something,
and we were talking to the gentleman behind the counter, explaining the situation to him,
and the man asked, well, how much sand do you need? And we told him, oh, 80 yards is quite a bit,
and the man said, well, I have 90 yards in my backyard. I don't have anything to do with it,
so you're more than welcome to it. He said, when do you need it? He said, well, we need it
more morning. And the man said, well, I have a dump truck too, so I'll see you in the morning.
All the next morning, he showed up, and we were able to fill that area and move on with the project.
Another experience that really stands out to me is an experience we had on the island of Yap.
We were doing a renovation of a remote translation office and an extension of the
Kingdom Hall because of the growth that they've had in the congregation. They've outgrown their
Kingdom Hall. So for that extension, we would need cement and sand for backfill. And again,
this was an island which is ironic that you can't really get sand on because there's
no companies that sell it. So what you do is you go from village to village asking the village chief
if he would be willing to sell sand off of his beach. Well, after visiting all the villages,
no one was willing to sell any of their sand that we needed. And so we reached the last village
which was willing to sell the sand. But the problem was there was a dispute between two chiefs
that bordered that beach. And one chief said, now that's my sand, the other one,
said it was his sand. Well, they couldn't come to an agreement, so they weren't willing to sell
the sand to us. So we were at the stage where we were getting ready to need it in a few days,
so we could move forward with the extension of the Kingdom Hall.
With that point, things got worse because there was a typhoon approaching the island.
So we just had the construction crew stop work. So the next morning we were able to get in contact
with the construction overseer on the island. And he said, I've got really good news.
There was no damage. The storm took a turn just before it hit the island and just grazed it.
He says, I have some other good news. I just got a haul from the village chiefs.
Apparently the storm surge had washed up a bunch of sand over their road to their villages
and they had no way of removing it. So they said, we have plenty of sand. Can you come and help us
get rid of it? So we ended up having enough sand for the rest of the project.
Joel was blessing is the most important thing that we can have on our projects from the start
to the finish. There will be no obstacle that can be put before you that you can't overcome.
And we've seen that time. And again, the finances is an important part of the project
to include when you're thinking about what projects you're going to do next and how you're going
to accomplish it. But financial support doesn't create the loving atmosphere that we find on these
projects. It doesn't create unity. It doesn't motivate ones to want to serve
Jehovah and work hard day in and day out together with their brothers and sisters. That's where Jehovah's
Spirit comes in. That's what's moving our brothers and sisters. That's what motivates us to work
hard together. Without Jehovah's hand in it, like we've seen, we wouldn't accomplish what we've
been able to accomplish. How exciting for the brothers in Micronesia. Our contributions are
important, but only when coupled with Jehovah's blessing. The need for Kingdom Halls continues
to grow worldwide. Here are some examples of recent projects and the fine results. Contributions
are not only used for conventions and construction projects. As we know, they are also used for
printing our publications, maintaining our website and producing videos. Starting in May of last
year, the JW Broadcasting Monthly Program has been available in many languages. And the response
from you dear brothers and sisters has been a great shout of appreciation to Jehovah.
Please join us behind the scenes as we follow the translation process step-by-step.
The governing body has asked for a long time. Our organization has been translating
Bible-based printed material into hundreds of languages for many years. Video has also been
included as an important part of our modern global educational work. But what unique challenges
are involved in translation of a video program like JW Broadcasting. Production of this program
involves creating and translating more content on a monthly basis than we have ever done before
as an organization. This is required training additional teams to support the work internationally.
What are the steps involved in this process? It starts when the teaching committee of the
governing body approves the monthly program recorded in the studio. The video recording of the
program is then passed on to the translation packaging team. They prepare a number of items that
together form a translation package. For example, they create a transcript, which includes
everything spoken in the program, along with any notes and explanations to help the translators
around the world carry out their work. To make the translated program pleasing to watch and
listen to, translated audio and subtitles must match the original length of each statement.
For example, if Brother Lett speaks for 15 seconds in the original English recording,
the translated version needs to also be 15 seconds. To help the translators in achieving that,
the original audio recording from our studio is broken into natural segments and timed.
That information is then added to the translation package.
The final package is double checked for accuracy and quality before it sent to translators worldwide.
The materials provided are used to immediately begin translation work,
assuring that the same spiritual food is being provided in each language.
The translated narration is recorded in various locations and added to the original video files.
Other regions use subtitles, record translations of various sign languages,
or a combination of these methods. Our brothers and sisters consider this assignment
a great privilege, knowing that it is helping Jehovah's people worldwide.
We can enjoy without worry. We really appreciate this.
Now we feel closer to Jehovah and his organization. And of course, it pulls together my family.
It touched my heart because it is in my own language. It's really wonderful to know that
this arrangement has been made. It's easy to listen to, and now we only have to click
to watch it in our own language. A lot of work is done here at Bethel to provide spiritual food
for all of Jehovah's people. Recently, a video was produced at Bethel in Japan.
It shows a group of sisters who sing about how much they love serving at Bethel.
This is a short excerpt from that video.
The main reasons for the construction of theocratic facilities is to support
the never-to-be-repeated work of finding honest-hearted ones who want to learn more about Jehovah.
One such individual is brother Steve Gertis from the United States.
As a young man, his life spun out of control, and his lifestyle left him feeling empty.
But what did he do to find purpose in life? Let's find out.
I grew up in a small town, and I had a good childhood.
My parents instilled in me from a young age, a love for God, and a respect for the Bible.
We were regular church attenders, and I went to a private school, and I had Bible classes each
and every day. Despite all of this, however, I felt like something was missing.
When I was 15, my life changed in a moment's notice. I was playing high up in a tree,
the branch broke, I fell to the ground, and I was paralyzed. At that moment, I went from an
active kid who could run to one who was paralyzed from his neck down. I couldn't feel anything.
By the time I was 18, I gained enough physical strength in my arms that I once again had my
independence. At that point, I attended a university and lived on campus. My life changed dramatically
once again. Here I was exposed to drugs, alcohol, immorality, and I fell into that lifestyle.
Every night, though, I still read the Bible. I still had this strong faith in God.
But, when I prayed and went to sleep at night, I just knew I was going to end up in that
hellfire that I had been taught from an early age. During this time, I met a girl named Julie,
and we were married shortly after. She was in the same hippie lifestyle that I was in,
and we knew if we were going to stay married, we had to move away from our bad influence.
We were looking for God, and we wanted Him in our life. One day, I was in the park by myself.
It was a beautiful setting. There was a lake in front of me, mountain in the background,
and at that point, I said a prayer to God. I told Him that we wanted to serve Him,
but we just didn't know how. About 10 minutes later, a guy walked up, and he started talking to me
about a paradise Earth. Everything he said made sense. I had read it before.
The thing that really stood out to me was his explanation on hellfire. It was so clear,
it was so logical, it just made sense to me. He invited us to the Kingdom Hall the next day,
and we went. My wife and I will never forget that first meeting 37 years ago.
I had my long hair, holes in my jeans. I don't think I even wore shoes that first time.
As we're sitting there, I'm thinking that the older brother who's conducting on stage,
he's going to find us so disgusting. But to our surprise, right after the meeting, he came up,
he greeted us and invited us to spend time with his family. We don't remember anything that
was said at that meeting, but we'll never forget the greeting. We immediately started attending
all the meetings at the Kingdom Hall and also began a Bible study with the brother we met in the
park. The changes in our lifestyle did not come overnight, but the brothers were so loving and
patient with us. We now had a purpose in life. The emptiness that I had felt for so long was no
longer there. We no longer had to live in that self-centered lifestyle. Now we had Jehovah,
we had the brothers, we had the ministry. We made our dedication to Jehovah and were baptized.
Julian, I have had a fruitful ministry over the years. It's always been one of our goals that we
and our two younger children would be able to one day regular pioneer together. We discussed
could we make a move to Mexico and serve where there was a greater need. We knew there would be
challenges with accessibility and learning a new culture. So we made the decision to try
it as a family for one year. And now four years later, we are all still serving in the full-time
ministry here in Mexico. I also live with pain every day and some thought that I would not have
the physical strength to make such a move. But I always remember that when I'm in the ministry,
I don't feel the pain. In fact, my children have said that I hope Dad never has to stop pioneering
because that's when he's the happiest. Pioneering really seems to be getting easier for me,
not harder. I know this isn't because of my strength, but it's Jehovah's Holy Spirit.
I still love the parks as I did when I was young, but now I have the opportunity to share the
wonderful Bible hope with others. I'm so thankful to Jehovah that he heard that prayer in the park
many years ago. My life is now filled with peace, happiness, and contentment.
And now I look forward to the time soon. When we're in the paradise, I can get rid of this wheelchair
and I can run once again. Brother Gertis has been serving as an elder for the past 25 years,
and as a regular pioneer for the last 13 years. Although financial contributions
are one means of giving to Jehovah, giving of our time and effort is also very important.
And we want to commend all of you who reach out, perhaps deserve in the full-time ministry,
or where the need is greater. If you're a parent and your children have put Kingdom
Interest first, we're confident that you are very proud of them. This music video highlights
common emotions that you may be facing, similar to how Hannah felt when she dedicated her son,
Samuel, to a life of service to Jehovah. The song is entitled, I give you my best.
The Seasuch sacrifices of time and effort to Jehovah. It's not easy for parents to see their children
move to a place far away, and it's not easy for the children either.
But knowing that it's for Jehovah helps to remain desolate, and Jehovah provides the strength
that is needed. And speaking of serving Jehovah wholeheartedly, if you haven't seen it yet,
we encourage you to watch an interview with three brothers who spent decades in the traveling
work. Their experiences are available in the Video On Demand section. The video is entitled,
Iron Sharpens Iron. Just like those faithful brothers, we are truly grateful for the privilege
of being part of God's organization. And we want to again commend all of you for your generous
support. And we've seen examples during this program of what has been accomplished using donated
funds. There is no doubt that Jehovah is blessing all our efforts to speed up the work
as his day is getting ever closer. We would like to conclude our JW Broadcasting program
with these greetings from a Kingdom Hall build in the state of Louisiana in the United States.
This congregation in Yunus was in need of a new Kingdom Hall after having used the same building
since 1970. The congregation found a property that had been for sale for more than five years.
Our brothers contacted the owners who then decided to donate the property to the witnesses.
It was later assessed to be worth $40,000 US dollars. Recently, construction began and the 53
publishers, including four elders and seven regular pioneers, now enjoy a brand new Kingdom Hall.
They send their love and greetings to you. And we do the same from World Headquarters
to all of you brothers and sisters around the world. We love you very much. This is JW Broadcasting.
From Brooklyn, New York.